Finding Salient Dates for Building Thematic Timelines
R
emy Kessler
LIMSI-CNRS
Orsay, France
kessler@limsi.fr
Xavier Tannier
Univ. Paris-Sud,
LIMSI-CNRS
Orsay, France
xtannier@limsi.fr
Caroline Hag
ege
Xerox Research Center Europe
Meylan, France
hagege@xrce.xerox.com
V
eronique Moriceau
Univ. Paris-Sud, LIMSI-CNRS
Orsay, France
moriceau@limsi.fr
Andr
e Bittar
Xerox Research Center Europe
Meylan, France
bittar@xrce.xerox.com
Abstract
We present an approach for detecting salient
(important) dates in texts in order to auto-
matically build event timelines from a search
query (e.g. the name of an event or person,
etc.). This work was carried out on a corpus
of newswire texts in English provided by the
Agence France Presse (AFP). In order to ex-
tract salient dates that warrant inclusion in an
event timeline, we first recognize and normal-
ize temporal expressions in texts and then use
a machine-learning approach to extract salient
dates that relate to a particular topic. We fo-
cused only on extracting the dates and not the
events to which they are related.
1 Introduction
Our aim here was to build thematic timelines for
a general domain topic defined by a user query.
This task, which involves the extraction of important
events, is related to the tasks of Retrospective Event
Detection (Yang et al., 1998), or New Event Detec-
tion, as defined for example in Topic Detection and
Tracking (TDT) campaigns (Allan, 2002).
The majority of systems designed to tackle this
task make use of textual information in a bag-of-
words manner. They use little temporal informa-
tion, generally only using document metadata, such
as the document creation time (DCT). The few sys-
tems that do make use of temporal information (such
as the now discontinued Google timeline), only ex-
tract absolute, full dates (that feature a day, month
and year). In our corpus, described in Section 3.1,
we found that only 7% of extracted temporal expres-
sions are absolute dates.
We distinguish our work from that of previous re-
searchers in that we have focused primarily on ex-
tracted temporal information as opposed to other
textual content. We show that using linguistic tem-
poral processing helps extract important events in
texts. Our system extracts a maximum of temporal
information and uses only this information to detect
salient dates for the construction of event timelines.
Other types of content are used for initial thematic
document retrieval. Output is a list of dates, ranked
from most important to least important with respect
to the given topic. Each date is presented with a set
of relevant sentences.
We can see this work as a new, easily evaluable
task of "date extraction", which is an important com-
ponent of timeline summarization.
In what follows, we first review some of the re-
lated work in Section 2. Section 3 presents the re-
sources used and gives an overview of the system.
The system used for temporal analysis is described
in Section 4, and the strategy used for indexing and
finding salient dates, as well as the results obtained,
are given in Section 51.
2 Related Work
The ISO-TimeML language (Pustejovsky et al.,
2010) is a specification language for manual anno-
tation of temporal information in texts, but, to the
best of our knowledge, it has not yet actually been
used in information retrieval systems. Neverthe-
1This work has been partially funded by French National
Research Agency (ANR) under project Chronolines (ANR-10-
CORD-010). We would like to thank the French News Agency
(AFP) for providing us with the corpus.
